# Hidden Markov Model for Tourist Recommendation
This repository presents the results and discussion of my scientific paper : "Hidden Markov Model for Tourist Recommendation"

Social networks are a popular means of analysing tourist behaviour thanks to the digital traces left by travellers during their trips on these networks. The large amount of data generated by the propensity of tourists to share comments and photos makes it possible to model their journeys and analyse their behaviour. 
Predicting tourist movements plays a key role in tourism marketing to understand demand and improve decision support tools such as applications that recommend places for a tourist to visit. 

This project addresses the problem of modeling and predicting the future behavior of a tourist-based on his present and past behavior in a given area. Based on the geo-localized and temporal data information, we propose a model for predicting future tourist behavior by analyzing the time sequences of places visited by a set of tourists. 

Our approach is to learn behaviors from a set of temporal sequences of places, through various methods to handle the difficulties due to big data. The proposed method uses a machine learning method developing a hidden Markov model representing the whole data set. The model can produce predictions as a recommendation of future places to visit. The model can also be updated to adapt to new behaviors. 

Our model is built from the whole data without reducing its size and with-out extracting a mathematical model. Thereby, we propose a new algorithm for automatic learning of grammatical inference to reduce its complexity in the context of big data. Moreover, this algorithm is designed to maintain all behavioral possibilities on the data set. We can retrieve the principal contributions of our works in the different folders of this project:

1.  This folder presents an analysis and a data exploration of our dataset. In it, we will present you the following points:
    - An analysis and exploration of our dataset, to have a better understanding of our data.
    - A method to establish sequences representing a unique stay of a tourist from Tripadvisor ranking data.
    
2.  The second folder will deal with the learning process. Indeed, this is the first step to understand tourist behavior over the set of sequences. It consists to learn past and present behavior to predict a future movement. This learning process consists of inducing rules, called <b>grammatical rules</b>, from the sequence set.
    - Our process starts by modeling the sequences set to a frequency prefix tree. The generated FPT cannot be used directly due to its large number of nodes. The number of nodes is at most the number of unique items power the length of the largest   sequence in the sequences set. To overcome this problem, one must reduce its size using <b>grammatical inference (GI)</b>.
    - Alergia algorithm is a GI method, which takes as a parameter the FPT and iteratively attempts to merge all node pairs. Two nodes are merged if they are compatible. With Alergia algorithm, the compatibility between two nodes depends on the compatibility between all their children until the leaves. Performing the compatibility test between each pair of nodes in the FPT generates an explosion of combinations. To counter this problem, we purpose a <b>Relaxed Alergia algorithm</b>. Both of the algorithms are implemented and tested in our case.
    
3.  The third folder deals with the flexible and relevant decision-making tool to represent all tourists’ behaviors in a dataset. This decision-making tool is able to predict future behavior and recommend places to visit for a tourist. After applying our grammar rules to our FPA and generating the corresponding DPFA (Deterministic Probabilistic Finite Automaton), a <b>Hidden Markov Model (HMM)</b> is built. An HMM is a graph with nodes and edges weighted by probabilities. Then, we can perform these two following parts:
    - <b>Prediction</b> : The second step is based on the Hidden Markov Model. Given a node of the HMM, all the future behaviors are generated browsing the HMM.
    - <b>Update</b> :  The third step is to update and adapt the weighted on nodes and edges of the Hidden Markov Model to a given set of sequences.

4. The last folder "Discussios and results" represents all the different parts put end to end in a notebook.
